---
layout: post
title: My Motivation (Day 50)
---

Let me tell you why I want to get involved in Infosec. After playing around a bit here and there, I realized more and more that Infosec offers a lot and is a field I want to break in. My personal reasons are:

* Infosec is damn important! Every day there are threats aiming at individuals and companies, aiming to harm and destroy. This triggers my sense of justice.
* I work with IT and security professionals on a daily basis, though my own role is less technical. A lot of what I learn benefits my work and my understanding of what my colleagues are doing.
* It feels like getting "back to the roots": since I was a kid, computer science has been "my thing". This included writing small programs and building and troubleshooting SOHO networks for me and others (mostly family and friends). I graduated in business administration and electrical engineering and got my first job in sales marketing at a medium sized tech company. I chose this step on purpose, to learn how a corporation works and to improve my non-technical skills. My current role is in project management, allowing me to apply a little bit of everything I have learned and skills I posess. At this point I first heard of Infosec and learned what was behind it. Though I do not regret any of those steps, I now feel the urge to directing my focus back towards IT again, even if it would mean a step back.
* It get a lot of encouragement and support! Family, friends and colleagues tell me "this is your thing". Even my employer supports me, which I am very grateful for.
* I live for the challenge. I like solving puzzles and being confronted with unknowns. Infosec is rapidly changing and I'm sure it will never bore me.
* Not to forget, there is a shortage of professionals in the industry.
* As long as there are computers and networks, there will be adversaries exploiting them. Which means the demand for security professionals will remain as long as society relies on technology (which I believe it should).

So, this is why I want to break into Infosec. I am excited what this decision will bring for me. Where will I stand in one year, in 5 or 10? 

Next step is to set my first goals! 

(This post was actually written almost one year later but reflects my thinking around this time & still does)
