---
layout: post
title: MetaCTF 2020 (Day 450)
---

**!Work in Progress!My 2 Favorite Challenges from MetaCTF**

My team (the infamous Delta Squad Zero) and I participated in the 2020 CTF and had a lot of fun. I want to show you my two favorite challenges from the event. Let's go:

**[Challenge 1 - Cryptography] Checkmate in 1**

*An employee on the network has been emailing these chess puzzles everyday to someone outside of the domain, and nobody really thought it was suspicious until they saw this weird string sent to that same person on the following day:  
F^mY;L?t24Zk.m^-hnWl,[l)[ku  
The SOC team has provided an archive of the email attachments, and has tasked you to investigate the actual contents of the ciphertext. Can you figure out what they've been saying?  
Hint: The flag is wrapped in MetaCTF{}. This should be enough to help you figure out the encoding.*

Also provided were nine chess puzzles as png's.

Being a tolerable chess player, I was able to solve the puzzles quickly and notated the results aka the winning moves:
"qh7, qa8, re7, d5, bb5, nb6, ra8, rh8, qh8"

My first thought was if there already was a known chess cipher, but a quick web-search was without results.

Then I approached the code. Guessing it may start with "MetaCTF{" I wrote this down, letter by letter:  
`F ^ m Y ; L ? t 2 4 Z k . m ^ - h n W l , [ l ) [ k u`  
`M e t a C T F {`

I then had the Idea to calculate the difference between the ASCII value of the letters:
`F ^ m Y ; L ? t 2 4 Z k . m ^ - h n W l , [ l ) [ k u`  
`7 7 7 8 8 8 7 7`  
`M e t a C T F {`  

Seeing a clear pattern here tells me I am on the right path. But what about the chess puzzles? Bingo! The last digit [representing the row on a chessboard] of the winning move seems to be the key for three letters in a row. Lets continue the pattern:
`F ^ m Y ; L ? t 2 4 Z k . m ^ - h n W l , [ l ) [ k u`  
`7 7 7 8 8 8 7 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 6 6 6 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8`  
`M e t a C T F { 9 9 _ p 3 r c 3 n t _ t 4 c t 1 c s }`  

We got our flag! This challenge was solved by very few teams, so I recommend you to play a game of chess once in a while ;)

**[Challenge 2 - Reverse-Engineering] Password Here Please**

*"I forgot my bank account password! Luckily for me, I wrote a program that checks if my password is correct just in case I forgot which password I used, so this way I don't lock myself out of my account. Unfortunately, I seem to have lost my password list as well...  
Could you take a look and see if you can find my password for me?  
Part 3 requires some math skills. To solve it, think about what is being done by the exponentiation step. Try rewriting the large number in base 257."*

With this challenge I want to show you that often there are different ways to solve a challenge...