---
layout: post
title: I am Network+ Certified (Day 372)
---

**Today I took the online exam and PASSED**

__30 minutes before the exam:__ Thanks to Covid-19 I took this test from home in front of my personal computer. I found this format to be an advantage, as it saved me several hours of traveling to the next testing center (>100 km). Before being allowed to sit the exam, I had to take pictures of my workspace and surroundings and agree to Pearson's test-taking policies (clear desk, mobile out of reach, all other applications closed, etc.). After the proctor had approved everything, I was allowed to start the exam.

__during the exam:__ My exam consisted of 77 questions, of which the first four were "Performance-Based Questions". My strategy was to solve those at the end, so I only skimmed and then skipped them. Unfortunately, my first impression was that the PBQ would take a comparably large amount of time. The following multiple-choice questions were mostly as I expected them from my study material. Most of them were a bit easier (many obviously wrong answer options), and some were a bit tougher since I hadn't encountered similar questions before. 
Of 90 minutes total, I spend 50 on multiple-choice. I then took 20 minutes to review questions I had flagged (I used this function generously whenever I wasn't 100% sure). 
The remaining 20 minutes I spent on the PBQs - and I needed them. PBQ are like little labs and there is a lot to see, klick, enter, and whatnot (questions seemed deeper than in the practice exams). Maybe because I am not a native English speaker, I found it a bit hard here to understand the objectives. I think I got 2 correct, one incorrect, and time run out before I could start the last PBQ. 

__after the exam:__ I finished my exam 30 seconds "early". I realized that my pulse went up notably in the end. I quickly did the questionnaire (the tension increased) and then got my result: I passed the exam! As expected, the result was not the best but also not the worst possible: it was in the range of my last practice exams.

__My takeaways:__ 

*Make sure you get through once fast.
*Flag a lot. Use the appropriate time to review.
*Remember: Every question equals the same (I think), so don't waste time if you don't know the answer.
*Don't let the PBQ's pressure you, go for the low hanging fruits first!


_I am happy that the time I spent learning was worthwile and I am looking forward to what comes next! Last but not least, I would like to thank the infosec community for their support and the educators out there on YouTube, Udemy and elsewhere for their commitment to sharing knowledge._